So let's actually go read some React.
Now we're gonna back
into our index.html here.
And we're just gonna
make a little component.
So we're gonna say const
App= arrow function.
This is what I was talking
about with ligatures.
Notice how these things get
combined into one thing.
It's actually just an equals and
a angle bracket.
Just go back and reference the previous
section about ligatures and
that'll teach you how to do that.
So const App = return React.createElement.
And then we're gonna create a div.
It's not gonna have any attributes, right?
This is where we could just say
like it has an Id of this or
a class name of that or an aria tag or
whatever, that you do all that here.
And then we're gonna create
another element inside of that.
So React.createElement.
This is gonna be an h1, no attributes,
and we're gonna call it Adopt Me.
People frequently ask me, well,
why don't I write semi-colons?
It's cuz Prettier writes
all my semi-colons for me.
And I'm about to teach you
how to use Prettier so
that you never have to hit
the semi-colon button ever again.
Okay, so what is app here?
This is a function that returns the result
of this thing called React.createElement.
So what we would call App
is a React component.
And that's kinda like the most
basic building block in React,
is that you're just using functions and
classes to create reusable components.
So a good way of thinking about this is
App is basically a rubber stamp, right?
And anywhere I wanna
create an app component,
I can just stamp it down again and
again and again, right?
That's kinda the basic gist of it.
It's like a class of components and
then you can create
instances of that component.
So the class being like the rubber stamp,
and
the instance being like the individual
stamp of the rubber stamp.
So basically here what we've done
is we went to the craft store and
we bought a rubber stamp, and now we're
just looking at the rubber stamp, right?
The rubber stamp hasn't done anything yet,
we've just created this ability
to stamp something out, right?
We've created a component, but we
haven't actually used the component yet.
So let's go use it.
We're gonna go underneath and
we're gonna say ReactDOM.render.
And this is this is actually gonna
render out our React application.
And we're gonna use
React.createElement again.
And we're gonna create an app.
So notice here this when we use quotes
to literally get a div component, right?
A div HTML item.
And here we're using this function
to actually run a function.
Okay, here if I wanted to,
I could put the empty braces and
null if I really wanted to, cuz I'm
not gonna put anything inside of it.
But you don't have to,
that's all optional.
So I'm just gonna leave
that off like that.
Then we have to put it somewhere,
and we're gonna try and
put it here in this route.
So we're gonna say
document.getElementById root.
As you can see it look a bit better.
This is just telling you where to put it,
which is here.
Okay, good so far?
So now if we save that, and
we go back over to this, and
we refresh the page, now you can see
we get a nice looking little logo.
Now you didn't put an image tag,
I replaced that using CSS.
But if you inspect the element here,
you can see that it's actually
an h1 that has a background image,
oops, that looks like that.
You can see that's where
that's coming from.
Good so far?
I mean probably the question you should
be asking yourself is why is this
useful to me?
I could have just written this HTML
directly and that would have gone a lot
faster, that's an astute observation on
your part if that's what you're thinking.
But the thing is that becomes really cool
about this is I can create bigger and
bigger components that are made
up of other components.
And then I have these like massive
reusable components that I can just throw
somewhere.
Like if you ever written
like a date picker, right?
They're enormously annoying to write.
But imagine just writing one day
picker that works extremely well and
then being able to use that
everywhere on your website.
That's kind of the promise of React here
is that I can write these self-contained
components I can drop
onto my web application.
These curly braces right here,
so it's just an empty object,
is really the core answer of what that is.
And honestly, you can put null here and
it works as well.
But that again, you never have
to care that that would work.
I just put an empty object.
Let's say if I wanted to give
this h1 right here an Id.
I could give it an Id of my-brand or
something like that, I don't know.
So I save this, refresh over here.
And notice here that this
Id gets rendered out here.
These are the attributes that you want
to be passed on to that HTML element.
So if you wanted to give it a class name,
you could do that there,
if you wanted to give it a style,
that's how you do all those things.
>> Why are we using
React.createElement app when
the app function itself
returns React.createElement?
>> It's good question.
So you can think of React.createElement
like I was talking about the stamps and
then stamping the stamp,
React.createElement is the motion
of stamping something, right?
So whenever I call app, right?
It stamps twice, right?
It stamps a div and then inside of
that div it stamps again an h1, right?
Here you can't give it just
like an abstract rubber stamp.
You have to give it
the instance of a stamp, right?
So you actually have to do the stamping.
So that's why you have to use
createElement here it's actually
going to the notion of creating
an instance of your component.
And that's essential,
that's just how React works.
We're kinda getting like a little bit off
the rails, because I'm gonna show you how
you're never going to write
React.createElement ever again.
I would imagine most React
developers don't even know that
that a function called
create element even exists,
because it's actually hidden from
you once you start using JSX.
But this is actually what JSX
is getting transpiled into,
it's getting transpiled
into createElement calls.
One thing I'm gonna call out
here is I capitalized App.
That's actually critical that you do that.
When we get into specifically using JSX,
you have to capitalize
the naming of components.
That's actually not even
just like a good idea.
It's actually required by React
that you capitalize that.
It's gonna assume anything that's
capitalized is something that you created,
and it's gonna assume anything that
you've lower-cased like div to be
something that's like an actual
name of an HTML element, right?
So if I came in here and
put x-custom-element like that,
and then I refresh over here.
Notice here, it's actually going to
call that x-custom-element, right?
So it's actually sensitive to
what you call those things.
In other words, you can use React web
components together if you want to.
I am 100% not talking about that today,
but I just throw it out there that
you could do that if you want it to.
>> How do you know it's that particular
div that you're anchoring it to?
>> How do I know which particular
div that I'm anchoring it to?
So this one here like Id root here,
I do that here that by
getting the correct element,
getElementById root,